hey how's it going Dave Tootsie here so
today we're gonna be talking about the
new MacBook Air the original MacBook Air
from like oh eight oh nine was a device
that I think really shaped the industry
it was the first thin and light computer
out there that had a good keyboard good
trackpad and was like a good overall
experience in a really portable package
I really think it just redefined what
laptops could and should do and when
this thing came out the old one when it
came on I remember it was a time period
where people would asking you know what
computer should I get just family
friends and even though I didn't like
Mac OS at the time I would say that
there's a computer out there called the
MacBook Air that if you're not dead set
on Windows I highly recommend this
device because for a lot of people once
you get used to Mac OS you will really
like the computer overall and I'd sent a
lot of family and friends down that road
I kind of regret it because a lot of
them ended up getting stuck in the Apple
ecosystem it was probably my fault but
it was a really good device it was so
easy to recommend fast forward nine ten
years later the new MacBook Air now this
is a device that is quite different from
the old and has the same name and I
think a lot of people had this
preconceived notion that it should once
again be this entry-level base model
MacBook that should be relatively
affordable and it kind of isn't at $1200
so I'm just going to talk about the
hardware real quick it is a great laptop
it's expensive but the build quality is
excellent it's on par with any of the
new MacBooks from the last couple of
years and you wouldn't be able to tell
that it's actually made from recycled
aluminum it's got touch ID controlled by
the t2 chip on the inside it has two
three ports and on that note if you're
trying to decide between the 12-inch
MacBook and the 13-inch MacBook Air I
highly recommend the MacBook Air over
the 12 inch just because of that extra
port the single port on the 12-inch
MacBook I keep pointing over there
because I'm using it to record the audio
but the single port on that machine is
limiting for a lot of people so if you
can my vote goes to the MacBook Air the
performance on it is really good it's
actually better than I thought would be
so this is running a Y processor and
normally why processors run without fans
and stuff like that turns out they are
running a fan on the MacBook Air and the
presence of that fan changes what this
processor can do so normally on a wipe
you can only run boost clock for a
little bit of time gets hot drops back
down because of this fan you're able to
maintain that boost clock and because it
has a fan it is audible when you push it
hard enough but it performs quite well
and the storage is also fast the screen
is finally Retina it's nice and sharp
but it's dimmer than I expected it would
be from a MacBook and maybe we've been
spoiled with a lot of really bright
screens from MacBooks but even the
12-inch MacBook has a brighter screen
than the MacBook Air which is a little
bit strange the colors are good it's
just that the brightness is not as
bright as I was hoping it to be the
keyboard is as expected it's got
butterfly switches and it really is a
keyboard that if you were forced to use
like if you were not allowed to use any
other keyboard and you were forced to
use the Apple butterfly switch keyboard
I think most people will get used to it
and learn to like it it's just that
initial learning curve can be steep for
some people that are coming from
completely different types of keyboards
the trackpad is also great use this for
such and I'd consider Apple to be the
leaders in the whole laptop industry
when it comes to track pads and stuff
like that the speakers are also quite
impressive I've kind of grown to expect
really good speakers from Apple products
and this does not disappoint and battery
life also strong is expected it's
running a Y processor so nothing too
demanding I'm able to get eight and a
half hours screen at 215 it's so this is
kind of like in the middle of the pack
when it comes to industry for thin and
light ultrabooks it's not super long if
you're expecting like a crazy long
battery life you're not gonna get that I
think the high-resolution screen uses a
lot more powder than you would expect
but a solid full day battery on the
MacBook Air now so far the product seems
very good right I mean there's nothing I
really have to complain about it except
for the price and this is where I want
to spend the majority of this video this
is a $1200 device and there's nothing
inherently wrong with a $1200 laptop
right lots of different companies sell
$1200 laptops but it's the fact that
this is the cheapest laptop that Apple
sells that you can get into the Apple
ecosystem at least the modern laptop
they still sell this ancient relic of a
device which they shouldn't anymore but
if you want a current Apple MacBook this
is the cheapest one and that is a
problem because on the market right now
in 2018 times are different it's no
longer 2008 or 2009 there are so many
companies out there they're making
really good thin and light laptops that
have great keywords great trackpads
great screens every single one on this
table is ax
the 13-inch Zenbook from Asus with the
light-up number pad the razor blade
stealth the XPS 13 the surface laptop -
the surface pro for people who want to
one capabilities there are a lot of
really good options in the market right
now in 2018 that this device the MacBook
Air is no longer this magical device
that I can just openly recommend to
people now here's the thing the reason
why they can sell this device the reason
why they can make a $1200 entry model
laptop is that right now in this day and
age there are so many people who
actively seek mac OS as their primary
choice there's so many people that love
mac OS I'm one of them who prefers Mac
OS over windows so they were gonna sell
this easily it doesn't matter if
competitors have better hardware or if
they're priced better it almost doesn't
even matter that the MacBook Air is not
a particularly good value what does
matter is that it has Mac OS and I think
for a lot of people that's what they're
looking for that's all they're looking
for now if you're in the market for any
kind of Ultrabook and operating system
is not like a thing that you really care
about I would not recommend the MacBook
Air you can get any one of these other
Windows laptops and you're guaranteed to
have better value for your money but if
you're looking for Mac OS or if you
prefer Mac OS this is it this is the one
that you have to get because Apple force
this product on to us it's a great
product it's expensive but it's a great
product it's just unfortunate that it's
the only one we can pick from at this
point ok hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it
subs if you'd love to see you guys next
time